# Emobodied Pipeline Scripts
This directory contains the tools nexessary to replicate all embodied AI projects.
The scripts in this directory are predominantly written in python and serve as a 
central location from which users can run, edit, extend previous projects. 

Additionally this directory contains the list of required python packages necessary 
for running simulations and analyzing the resulting data. Users are advised to use
the `requirements.txt` file to install all necessary packages in a virtual environment
for simulating and analyzing data. Instructions for setting up are given below.

## Sub-Directories
* `Analysis`: The analysis directory contains a collection of scripts for analyzing 
data generated by simulating virtual agents in the VR chambers.
* `Data`: This folder contains locally generated data from the simulations. Scripts in 
the analysis directory also rely on this folder. The folder has been added to 
`.gitignore` file and thus should be empty when initially cloned and be ommitted from 
future pushes.
* `Simulation`: This directory contains the code necessary to run simulations of the
chick experiments.


## Setup
#### Part 1: Set up your virtual environment
Why use a virtual environment? Virtual environments help keep dependencies required by different projects separate.
A virtual environment will serve as a container to all the necessary python packages for this pipeline.
1. Install virtualenv

MAC / LINUX:
```
python3 -m pip install --user virtualenv
```
WINDOWS:
```
py -m pip install --user virtualenv
```
2. Create a virtual environment. For code below, the directory where you want your virtual environment is denoted as MY_FOLDER, and the name of your virtual environment is denoted as VENV. (You shouldn't use all caps. I'm just using them to draw attention to the part of the code you'll need to personalize.) Virtual environments should not be included in the git repository and should ideally be placed in the user's home directory (`~` in MAC / LINUX).

MAC / LINUX:
```
cd MY_FOLDER
python3 -m venv VENV
```
WINDOWS:
```
cd MY_FOLDER
py -m venv VENV
```
3. Activate your virtual environment. This step will need to be done every time a new terminal is used. Although, previously created virtual environments will persist as directories.

MAC / LINUX:
```
source VENV/bin/activate
```
WINDOWS:
```
.\VENV\Scripts\activate
```
4. Install the necessary directories. This step must be after the virtual environment is activated otherwise permission errors will appear. To simplify this install a `requirements.txt` is included.

MAC / LINUX / WINDOWS:
```
python3 -m pip install -r ./requirements.txt
```
5. Your virtual environment should be activated whenever you want to train and test models with this version of the environment. However, when you are finished with ml-agents, you can deactivate the virtual environment:
```
deactivate
```